[DOCS] Adds classification example to the DFA documentation (#690)
elastic/stack-docs: docs/en/stack/ml/df-analytics/flightdata-classification.asciidoc

          "other_predicted_class_doc_count" : 0
        },
        {
          "actual_class" : "true",
          "actual_class_doc_count" : 2939,
          "predicted_classes" : [
            {
              "predicted_class" : "false",
              "count" : 1213
            },
            {
              "predicted_class" : "true",
              "count" : 1726
            }
          ],
          "other_predicted_class_doc_count" : 0
        }
      ],
      "other_actual_class_count" : 0
    }
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
<1> The name of the actual class. In this example, there are two actual classes: 
`true` and `false`.
<2> The number of documents in the dataset that belong to the actual class.
<3> The name of the predicted class.
<4> The number of documents belong to the actual class that are labelled as the 
predicted class. 

There are 8778 documents in the testing proportion of the dataset that have the 
`false` class. The model labelled 7509 documents (out of 8778) correctly as 
`false` and 1269 documents as `true` while those are actually `false`. There are 
2939 documents in the testing data that have the `true` class. 1213 of them are 

> predicted as `false` and 1726 are predicted correctly as `true`.

Reviewer: Because it is only a binary classification example, I think it is worth additionally representing this data as tabular confusion matrix not just in words. 

Also, the sample data changes when you load it.. Please check if the values change or if it is just the timestamps. We do need the check this, because running the same analysis against different instances of Kibana where the flight data has been generated differently may result in different answers. In this case, we should qualify the results may vary.

[role="xpack"]
[testenv="platinum"]
[[flightdata-classification]]

> === Predicting delaying flights with {classanalysis}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
=== Predicting delayed flights with {classanalysis}
```

Let's try to predict whether a flight will be delayed or not by using the 

> {kibana-ref}/add-sample-data.html[sample flight data]. We use this data to learn 

Reviewer 2: > We use this data to learn a classification model....

In my opinion, it might be too soon to talk about the model.  I'd suggest something more high-level like this:

For example, we want to be able to use information such as weather conditions, carrier, flight distance, origin, or destination to predict flight delays.

a {classification} model that allows us to make the prediction based on 
information such as weather conditions and location of the destination and 
origin, flight distance and carrier.

> This dataset consists of sample data that has been manually created and it 

Reviewer 2: We can likely shorten this.  Not sure if "made up"/"fabricated"/etc is the right word, but here's a suggestion:
```suggestion
This sample dataset is made up and it 
```

contains inconsistencies. For example, a flight can be both delayed and 
canceled. Nonetheless, the use case is relevant and it is a good example of how 

> the quality of input data will affect the quality of results.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the quality of the input data affects the quality of the results.
```

> We create a {dfanalytics-job} to predict if a given flight is delayed. This 

Reviewer 2: > We create a data frame analytics job... on the field FlightDelay.

In my opinion, these first two sentences don't fit in with this paragraph.  I'd suggest moving them after the example of the document (see subsequent comment).

```
{
  "_index": "kibana_sample_data_flights",
  "_type": "_doc",
  "_id": "S-JS1W0BJ7wufFIaPAHe",
  "_version": 1,
  "_seq_no": 3356,
  "_primary_term": 1,
  "found": true,
  "_source": {
    "FlightNum": "N32FE9T",
    "DestCountry": "JP",
    "OriginWeather": "Thunder & Lightning",
    "OriginCityName": "Adelaide",
    "AvgTicketPrice": 499.08518599798685,
    "DistanceMiles": 4802.864932998549,
    "FlightDelay": false,
    "DestWeather": "Sunny",
    "Dest": "Chubu Centrair International Airport",
    "FlightDelayType": "No Delay",
    "OriginCountry": "AU",
    "dayOfWeek": 3,
    "DistanceKilometers": 7729.461862731618,
    "timestamp": "2019-10-17T11:12:29",
    "DestLocation": {
      "lat": "34.85839844",
      "lon": "136.8049927"
    },
    "DestAirportID": "NGO",
    "Carrier": "ES-Air",
    "Cancelled": false,
    "FlightTimeMin": 454.6742272195069,
    "Origin": "Adelaide International Airport",
    "OriginLocation": {
      "lat": "-34.945",
      "lon": "138.531006"
    },
    "DestRegion": "SE-BD",
    "OriginAirportID": "ADL",
    "OriginRegion": "SE-BD",
    "DestCityName": "Tokoname",
    "FlightTimeHour": 7.577903786991782,
    "FlightDelayMin": 0
  }
}
```

> {classification-cap} is a supervised machine learning analysis and therefore 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Notice that each document contains a `FlightDelay` field with a boolean value. {classification-cap} is a supervised machine learning analysis and therefore 
```

needs to train on data that contains the ground truth, known as the 

> `dependent_variable`. In this example, the ground truth is available in each 

Reviewer 2: I think at this point we're referring to the concept of dependent variables, not to a specific entity:
```suggestion
_dependent variable_. In this example, the ground truth is available in each 
```

document as the actual value of `FlightDelay`.

If your source data consists of some documents that contain a 

> `dependent_variable` and some that do not, the model is trained on the 

Reviewer 2: Ditto re concept vs entity:
```suggestion
dependent variable and some that do not, the model is trained on the 
```

> `training_percent` of the documents that contain ground truth. However, 

Reviewer 2: I think we need more explanation of this parameter, for example:
```suggestion
subset of documents that contain ground truth (as defined in the `training_percent` parameter). However, 
```

Does this mean that if you don't specify this parameter, we'll still try (and fail) to use documents that don't contain the dependent variable?

> predictions are made against all of the data. The current implementation of 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Predictions are made against all of the data. The current implementation of 
```

{classanalysis} supports a single batch analysis for both training and 
predictions.

> 

Reviewer 2: Optionally, re-add the sentence I suggested removing (above) here:
```suggestion
To predict whether a specific flight is delayed:
```

. Create a {dfanalytics-job}.
+
--
Use the {ref}/put-dfanalytics.html[create {dfanalytics-jobs}] API as you can see 
in the following example:

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
PUT _ml/data_frame/analytics/model-delayed-flights
{
  "source": {
    "index": [
      "kibana_sample_data_flights"  <1>
    ]
  },
  "dest": {
    "index": "df-flight-delayed",  <2>

>     "results_field": "ml" 

Reviewer 2: I think it's worth having a footnote for the results_field too.

  },
  "analysis": {
    "classification": {
      "dependent_variable": "FlightDelay",  <3>
      "training_percent": 10  <4>
    }
  },
  "analyzed_fields": {
    "includes": [],
    "excludes": [    <5>
      "Cancelled",
      "FlightDelayMin",
      "FlightDelayType"
    ]
  },
  "model_memory_limit": "100mb" <6>
}
--------------------------------------------------
// TEST[skip:setup kibana sample data]

<1> The source index to analyze.
<2> The index that will contain the results of the analysis; it will consist of 
a copy of the source index data where each document is annotated with the 
results.
<3> Specifies the variable we want to predict with the {classanalysis}.
<4> Specifies the proportion of data that is used for training the model. In 
this example we use 10% of the source data. The training data is randomly 
selected and provide predictions from the remaining 90%. These percentages are 
approximate. For most of the datasets, even a small proportion of the training 

> data (2-5%) results in good predictions.

Reviewer 2: > For most datasets, even a small proportion of the training data...

Can we clarify why you'd consider specifying this?  Is it so that it's faster?  Or is it so that you can use the rest as testing data?

Author: Yes, I clarified this. It is important when you need to manually label your dataset with the ground truth.

<5> Specifies fields to be excluded from the analysis. It is recommended to 
exclude fields that either contain erroneous data or describe the 
`dependent_variable`.
<6> Specifies a memory limit for the job. If the job requires more than this 
amount of memory, it fails to start. This makes it possible to prevent job 
execution if the available memory on the node is limited.

The API returns the following response:

[source,console-result]
--------------------------------------------------  
{
  "id" : "model-flight-delays",
  "source" : {
    "index" : [
      "kibana_sample_data_flights"
    ],
    "query" : {
      "match_all" : { }
    }
  },
  "dest" : {
    "index" : "df-flight-delayed",
    "results_field" : "ml"
  },
  "analysis" : {
    "regression" : {
      "dependent_variable" : "FlightDelayMin",

>       "prediction_field_name" : "FlightDelayMin_prediction",

Reviewer 2: I think this prediction_field_name is the only interesting output field.  Should we draw attention to it? If not, maybe this output is unnecessary and can be omitted.

      "training_percent" : 10.0
    }
  },
  "analyzed_fields" : {
    "includes" : [ ],
    "excludes" : [
      "Cancelled",
      "FlightDelay",
      "FlightDelayType"
    ]
  },
  "model_memory_limit" : "100mb",
  "create_time" : 1574436219144,
  "version" : "7.5.0",
  "allow_lazy_start" : false
}
--------------------------------------------------
--

. Start the job.
+
--
Use the {ref}/start-dfanalytics.html[start {dfanalytics-jobs}] API to start the 

> job. It will stop automatically when the analysis is complete, you don't need to 

Reviewer 2: Removing future tense:
```suggestion
job. It stops automatically when the analysis is complete; you don't need to 
```

stop it manually.

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
POST _ml/data_frame/analytics/model-delayed-flights/_start
--------------------------------------------------
// TEST[skip:TBD]

The job takes a few minutes to run. Runtime depends on the local hardware and 
also on the number of documents and fields that are analyzed. The more fields 

> and documents, the longer the job to run.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and documents, the longer the job runs.
```

--

. Check the job stats to follow the progress by using the 
{ref}/get-dfanalytics-stats.html[get {dfanalytics-jobs} statistics API].
+
--

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
GET _ml/data_frame/analytics/model-delayed-flights/_stats
--------------------------------------------------
// TEST[skip:TBD]

The API call returns the following response: 

[source,console-result]
----  
{
  "count" : 1,
  "data_frame_analytics" : [
    {
      "id" : "model-delayed-flights",
      "state" : "stopped",
      "progress" : [
        {
          "phase" : "reindexing",
          "progress_percent" : 100
        },
        {
          "phase" : "loading_data",
          "progress_percent" : 100
        },
        {
          "phase" : "analyzing",
          "progress_percent" : 100
        },
        {
          "phase" : "writing_results",
          "progress_percent" : 100
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}
----  

The job has four phases. When all the phases have completed, the job 

> state becomes `stopped` and the results are ready to view and evaluate.

Reviewer 2: This made me wonder whether there might be other reasons why the state would be "stopped" (e.g. if you stop it manually before it's complete), so I suggest omitting that detail:
```suggestion
stops and the results are ready to view and evaluate.
```

--

[[flightdata-classification-results]]

> ==== Viewing results

Reviewer 2: As is, this makes me wonder "results of what?".  If possible, I suggest clarifying. For example:
```suggestion
==== Viewing training results
```

> 

Reviewer 2: I'd suggest adding an introductory paragraph at the top of this section.  For example, something about how you should now have a new index that contains a copy of your source data with predictions for your dependent variable.  That way you don't have to find all that interesting information down in the footnotes.

two, hence this is the predicted class). This is a value between 0 and 1. The 
higher the number, the higher the probability that the datapoint belongs to the 
class.
<4> Name of the class.
<5> The probability that `FlightDelay` is true.
<6> The prediction. The field name is suffixed with `_prediction` by default. 
You can specify the field name by defining `prediction_field_name` via the API. 
<7> Indicates that this document was not used in the training set.

The example above shows that the analysis has predicted the probability of all 
possible classes. In this case, there are two classes: `true` and `false`. The 
class names along with the probability of the given classes are displayed in the 
`top_classes` object. The most probable class is the prediction. In the example 
above, `false` has a `class_probability` of 0.93 while `true` has only 0.06, so 
the prediction will be `false` which coincides with the ground truth contained 
by the `FlightDelay` field. The class probability values help you understand how 
sure the model is about the prediction. The higher number means that the model 
is more confident.

> If a document doesn't contain a prediction field, then it is excluded from the 

Reviewer 2: > If a document doesn't contain a prediction field, then it is excluded from the 

This is the first time we've referred to a "prediction field", so it gave me pause about what it was referring to. I'm assuming it's referring to the existence of a field that contains the predicted value.

> analysis. In order to be analyzed, a document must contain at least one field 

Reviewer 2: > In order to be analyzed...

Sorry if I'm missing the point, but I thought at this point the analysis was already complete. Are we saying that if it doesn't have a predicted value it's because it *was* excluded from the analysis (because it contained an array or an unsupported data type, etc)?

with a supported data type (`numeric`, `boolean`, `text`, `keyword` or `ip`) and 
must not contain arrays with more than one item.
--

[[flightdata-classification-evaluate]]
==== Evaluating results

The results can be evaluated for documents which contain both the ground truth 
field and the prediction. In the example below, `FlightDelay` contains the 
ground truth and the prediction is stored as `FlightDelay_prediction`.

. Use the {dfanalytics} evaluate API to evaluate the results.
+
--
First, we want to know the training error that represents how well the model 
performed on the training dataset:

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
POST _ml/data_frame/_evaluate
{
 "index": "df-flight-delayed",  <1>
   "query": {
    "term": {
      "ml.is_training": {
        "value": true  <2>
      }
    }
  },
 "evaluation": {
   "classification": {
     "actual_field": "FlightDelay",  <3>
     "predicted_field": "ml.FlightDelay_prediction",  <4>
     "metrics": {  
       "multiclass_confusion_matrix" : {}
     }
   }
 }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// TEST[skip:TBD]

<1> The destination index which is the output of the analysis job.

> <2> We calculate the training error by only evaluating the training data.

Reviewer 2: > We calculate the training error by only evaluating the training data...

I think this is important enough to be moved out of the footnote.  For example, noting that in previous steps we saw that the new index contained a field that indicated which documents were used as training data, which we can now use to calculate the training error.

<3> The field that contains the ground truth label.
<4> The field that contains the predicted value.

Next, we calculate the generalization error that represents how well the model 
performed on previously unseen data:

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
POST _ml/data_frame/_evaluate
{
 "index": "df-flight-delayed",
   "query": {
    "term": {
      "ml.is_training": {
        "value": false  <1>
      }
    }
  },
 "evaluation": {
   "classification": {
     "actual_field": "FlightDelay",
     "predicted_field": "ml.FlightDelay_prediction",
     "metrics": {  
       "multiclass_confusion_matrix" : {}
     }
   }
 }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// TEST[skip:TBD]

> <1> By only evaluating the data that was not used in training, we can 

Reviewer 2: > By only evaluating the data... 

This feels like a repetition of the lead-in sentence.  I think you could just leave the footnote as something like "Evaluate only the documents that are not training data"

Author: Thank you! It was a copy/paste error.

          "actual_class_doc_count" : 912, <2>
          "predicted_classes" : [
            {
              "predicted_class" : "false", <3>
              "count" : 755 <4>
            },
            {
              "predicted_class" : "true",
              "count" : 157
            }
          ],
          "other_predicted_class_doc_count" : 0
        },
        {
          "actual_class" : "true",
          "actual_class_doc_count" : 306,
          "predicted_classes" : [
            {
              "predicted_class" : "false",
              "count" : 80
            },
            {
              "predicted_class" : "true",
              "count" : 226
            }
          ],
          "other_predicted_class_doc_count" : 0
        }
      ],
      "other_actual_class_count" : 0
    }
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
<1> The name of the actual class. In this example, there are two actual classes: 
`true` and `false`.
<2> The number of documents in the dataset that belong to the actual class.
<3> The name of the predicted class.
<4> The number of documents belong to the actual class that are labelled as the 
predicted class. 

> The returned confusion matrix shows us how many datapoints were classified 

Reviewer 2: > The returned confusion matrix shows... (actual class does not match predicted class).

I'd suggest moving this first sentence so that it introduces the response example. Otherwise, I have to wait til I get here to understand what I'm looking at.

      "range" : {
        "DistanceKilometers" : {
          "gt" : 0
        }
      }
    }
  },
  "dest" : {
    "index" : "df-flight-results",
    "results_field" : "ml"
  },
  "analysis" : {
    "classification" : {
      "dependent_variable" : "FlightDelay",
      "num_top_classes" : 2,
      "prediction_field_name" : "FlightDelay_prediction",
      "training_percent" : 70.0
    }
  },
  "analyzed_fields" : {
    "includes" : [ ],
    "excludes" : [
      "Cancelled",
      "FlightDelayMin",
      "FlightDelayType"
    ]
  },
  "model_memory_limit" : "100mb",
  "create_time" : 1574165518647,
  "version" : "7.5.0",
  "allow_lazy_start" : false
}
--------------------------------------------------
--

. Start the job.
+
--
Use the {ref}/start-dfanalytics.html[start {dfanalytics-jobs}] API to start the 
job. It will stop automatically when the analysis is complete, you don't need to 
stop it manually.

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
POST _ml/data_frame/analytics/model-delayed-flights/_start
--------------------------------------------------
// TEST[skip:TBD]

The job takes a few minutes to run. Runtime depends on the local hardware and 

> also on the number of documents and fields that analyzed. The more fields and 

Reviewer 3: `... documents and fields that analyzed`

How about changing to "that are analyzed" or similar?

> documents, the longer the job to run.

Reviewer 3: `... the longer the job to run`

Please check if this is correct English.

          "Carrier" : "Kibana Airlines",
          "FlightDelayMin" : 0,
          "OriginRegion" : "CO-CUN",
          "FlightDelayType" : "No Delay",
          "DestAirportID" : "NRT",
          "timestamp" : "2019-11-12T17:06:35",
          "Dest" : "Narita International Airport",
          "FlightTimeHour" : 13.210330384036373,
          "Cancelled" : false,
          "DistanceKilometers" : 14267.156814759282,
          "OriginCityName" : "Bogota",
          "DestWeather" : "Sunny",
          "OriginCountry" : "CO",
          "ml__id_copy" : "-7OQg24B95sXiIrm0EZo",
          "DestCountry" : "JP",
          "DestRegion" : "SE-BD",
          "OriginAirportID" : "BOG",
          "DestCityName" : "Tokyo",
          "ml" : {
            "top_classes" : [ <2>
              {
                "class_probability" : 0.939335365058496, <3>
                "class_name" : "false" <4>
              },
              {
                "class_probability" : 0.06066463494150393,
                "class_name" : "true"
              }
            ],
            "FlightDelay_prediction" : "false", <5>
            "is_training" : false <6>
          }
----

> <1> The `dependent_variable` with the ground truth value. This is what we are 

Reviewer 3: These callouts render as small roman numbers (`i`, `ii`, etc.) but in the json snippet above they are  arabic numbers (`<1>`, `<2>`, etc.). This may make it harder for the user to match.

trying to predict with the {classanalysis}.
<2> The top classes object contains the predicted classes with the highest 
probability.
<3> The probability that the datapoint belongs to the given class. This is a 
value between 0 and 1. The higher the number the higher the probability that the 
datapoint belongs to the class.
<4> Name of the class.

> <5> The prediction. The field name is suffixed with `_prediction`.

Reviewer 3: This is true unless the user specified `prediction_field_name` via the API. In such a case, there will be no `_prediction` suffix.

<6> Indicates that this document was not used in the training set.

The example above shows that the analysis has predicted the probability of all 
the possible classes. In this case, there are two classes: `true` and `false`. 
The class names along with the probability of the given classes are displayed in 
the `top_classes` object. The most probable class is the prediction. In the 
example above, `false` has a `class_probability` of 0.93 while `true` has only 
0.06, so the prediction will be `false` which coincides with the ground truth 

> contained by the `FlightDelay` field. The class probability values help you to 

Reviewer 3: Drop "to"?

understand how sure the model is about the prediction. The higher number means 
that the model is more confident.

> If a document doesn't contain a prediction field, then it is excluded from the 

Reviewer 3: "If a document doesn’t contain a prediction field, then it is excluded from the analysis."

Please clarify what do you mean by a "prediction field"? If you mean "dependent variable" then the sentence is not true.

with a supported data type (`numeric`, `boolean`, `text`, `keyword` or `ip`) and 
must not contain arrays with more than one item.
--

[[flightdata-classification-evaluate]]
==== Evaluating results

The results can be evaluated for documents which contain both the ground truth 
field and the prediction. In the example below, `FlightDelay` contains the 
ground truth and the prediction is stored as `FlightDelay_prediction`.

. Use the {dfanalytics} evaluate API to evaluate the results.
+
--
First, we want to know the training error that represents how well the model 
performed on the training dataset:

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
POST _ml/data_frame/_evaluate
{
 "index": "df-flight-results",  <1>
   "query": {
    "term": {
      "ml.is_training": {
        "value": true  <2>
      }
    }
  },
 "evaluation": {
   "classification": {
     "actual_field": "FlightDelay",  <3>
     "predicted_field": "ml.FlightDelay_prediction",  <4>
     "metrics": {  
       "multiclass_confusion_matrix" : {}
     }
   }
 }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// TEST[skip:TBD]

> <1> The destination index which is the output of the analysis job.

Reviewer 3: Similar issue with callouts (roman vs arabic).

<2> We calculate the training error by only evaluating the training data.
<3> The field that contains the ground truth label.
<4> The field that contains the predicted value.

Next, we calculate the generalization error that represents how well the model 
performed on previously unseen data:

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
POST _ml/data_frame/_evaluate
{
 "index": "df-flight-classified",
   "query": {
    "term": {
      "ml.is_training": {
        "value": false  <1>
      }
    }
  },
 "evaluation": {
   "classification": {
     "actual_field": "FlightDelay",

>      "predicted_field": "ml.FlightDelay_prediction",

Reviewer 3: Did you run these examples on ES? I think `predicted_field` should be `ml.FlightDelay_prediction.keyword` but please verify that.

Author: I did run these examples in ES. As far as I know, you don't need to put `.keyword` after the name of the prediction field anymore, this issue has been fixed recently.
<img width="1380" alt="Screenshot 2019-11-20 at 10 00 49" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/22324794/69224445-dd027f00-0b7c-11ea-9ea7-3c3b95db8667.png">

Reviewer 3: Ah, right. That was Dimitris' fix. Thanks for checking!

     "metrics": {  
       "multiclass_confusion_matrix" : {}
     }
   }
 }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// TEST[skip:TBD]

<1> By only evaluating the data that was not used in training, we can 
calculate the generalization error which shows the algorithm accuracy in making 
predictions for previously unseen data.

> The API call returns a similar response:

Reviewer 3: Similar to what? You didn't include the response for the evaluation request above.

Author: I didn't include the response of the evaluation request above as the two responses are almost identical. The structure is the same for both of them, so it is enough to highlight the differences in the requests and explain the response only once.

    "OriginAirportID": "ADL",
    "OriginRegion": "SE-BD",
    "DestCityName": "Tokoname",
    "FlightTimeHour": 7.577903786991782,
    "FlightDelayMin": 0
  }
}
```

{classification-cap} is a supervised machine learning analysis and therefore 
needs to train on data that contains the ground truth, known as the 
`dependent_variable`. In this example, the ground truth is available in each 
document as the actual value of `FlightDelay`.

If your source data consists of some documents that contain a 
`dependent_variable` and some that do not, the model is trained on the 
`training_percent` of the documents that contain ground truth. However, 
predictions are made against all of the data. The current implementation of 
{classanalysis} supports a single batch analysis for both training and 
predictions.

. Create a {dfanalytics-job}.
+
--
Use the {ref}/put-dfanalytics.html[create {dfanalytics-jobs}] API as you can see 
in the following example:

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
PUT _ml/data_frame/analytics/model-delayed-flights
{
  "source": {
    "index": [
      "kibana_sample_data_flights"  <1>
    ],
    "query": {  <2>
      "range": {

>         "DistanceKilometers": { 

Reviewer 4: I need to double check this - I think I left out this query in the original classification gist, because it would not make sense to exclude flights with DistanceKilometers 0 - after all any flight that is cancelled, would probably have DistanceKilometers set to 0 (although, in this dataset one can't be too sure, since it's synthetic and a bit illoligal in places)

Author: Thanks! I removed it!

          "gt": 0
        }
      }
    }
  },
  "dest": {
    "index": "df-flight-delayed",  <3>
    "results_field": "ml" 
  },
  "analysis": {
    "classification": {
      "dependent_variable": "FlightDelay",  <4>

>       "training_percent": 10  <5>

Reviewer 4: It looks like perhaps the examples in this PR were taken from an older version of the Classification gist (https://gist.github.com/Winterflower/e2f226fd615a556bc1ddf9745d68df15) - in the updated version, I've bumped the training_percent to 90 to match the regression example. 
<img width="921" alt="Screen Shot 2019-11-22 at 3 12 41 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4982858/69436750-48e21480-0d42-11ea-80ca-686db5fdf749.png">

Author: @Winterflower I used a smaller number because I wanted to capture the fact you mentioned on the ML weekly about even a smaller training percent leads to fairly great results. I figured it is clearer if the example represents this somehow. Would it be better to change back to 90%?

    }
  },
  "analyzed_fields": {
    "includes": [],
    "excludes": [    <6>
      "Cancelled",
      "FlightDelayMin",
      "FlightDelayType"
    ]
  },
  "model_memory_limit": "100mb" <7>
}
--------------------------------------------------
// TEST[skip:setup kibana sample data]

<1> The source index to analyze.

> <2> This query removes erroneous data from the analysis to improve its quality.

Reviewer 4: Section [2] should be removed since we don't have the query in the example.

a copy of the source index data where each document is annotated with the 
results.
<4> Specifies the variable we want to predict with the {classanalysis}.
<5> Specifies the proportion of data that is used for training the model. In 
this example we use 10% of the source data. The training data is randomly 
selected and provide predictions from the remaining 90%. These percentages are 
approximate. For most of the datasets, even a small proportion of the training 
data (2-5%) results in good predictions.
<6> Specifies fields to be excluded from the analysis. It is recommended to 
exclude fields that either contain erroneous data or describe the 
`dependent_variable`.
<7> Specifies a memory limit for the job. If the job requires more than this 
amount of memory, it fails to start. This makes it possible to prevent job 
execution if the available memory on the node is limited.

The API returns the following response:

[source,console-result]
--------------------------------------------------  
{
  "id" : "model-delayed-flights",
  "source" : {
    "index" : [
      "kibana_sample_data_flights"
    ],
    "query" : {
      "range" : {
        "DistanceKilometers" : {

>           "gt" : 0

Reviewer 4: The console result should be updated, but I see that I haven't included the console response in the classification gist. I'm going to fix that.

          "Cancelled" : false,
          "DistanceKilometers" : 14267.156814759282,
          "OriginCityName" : "Bogota",
          "DestWeather" : "Sunny",
          "OriginCountry" : "CO",
          "ml__id_copy" : "-7OQg24B95sXiIrm0EZo",
          "DestCountry" : "JP",
          "DestRegion" : "SE-BD",
          "OriginAirportID" : "BOG",
          "DestCityName" : "Tokyo",
          "ml" : {
            "top_classes" : [ <2>
              {
                "class_probability" : 0.939335365058496, <3>
                "class_name" : "false" <4>
              },
              {
                "class_probability" : 0.06066463494150393, <5>
                "class_name" : "true"
              }
            ],
            "FlightDelay_prediction" : "false", <6>
            "is_training" : false <7>
          }
----
<1> The `dependent_variable` with the ground truth value. This is what we are 
trying to predict with the {classanalysis}.
<2> The top classes object contains the predicted classes with the highest 
probability.
<3> The probability that `FlightDelay` is false (the larger probability of the 
two, hence this is the predicted class). This is a value between 0 and 1. The 

> higher the number the higher the probability that the datapoint belongs to the 

Reviewer 4: This is suuuper, super nitpicky, but I would add a comma here to clarify the flow of the sentence a bit.
`The higher the number, the higher the probability that the datapoint belongs ...`

Author: You're right! Thanks!

<5> The probability that `FlightDelay` is true.
<6> The prediction. The field name is suffixed with `_prediction` by default. 
You can specify the field name by defining `prediction_field_name` via the API. 
<7> Indicates that this document was not used in the training set.

The example above shows that the analysis has predicted the probability of all 
possible classes. In this case, there are two classes: `true` and `false`. The 
class names along with the probability of the given classes are displayed in the 
`top_classes` object. The most probable class is the prediction. In the example 
above, `false` has a `class_probability` of 0.93 while `true` has only 0.06, so 
the prediction will be `false` which coincides with the ground truth contained 
by the `FlightDelay` field. The class probability values help you understand how 
sure the model is about the prediction. The higher number means that the model 
is more confident.

If a document doesn't contain a prediction field, then it is excluded from the 
analysis. In order to be analyzed, a document must contain at least one field 
with a supported data type (`numeric`, `boolean`, `text`, `keyword` or `ip`) and 

> must not contain arrays with more than one item.

Reviewer 4: I am a bit torn about what to do here, because in my opinion having different exclude behaviour for a document with one element vs doc with multiple elements in the same field is a bit confusing and I'd like to add a clarifying point for this somewhere in the docs. It might not necessarily be here in this example, though. 
I need to think about this a bit and will ping @dimitris-athanasiou for a further conversation.

     "actual_field": "FlightDelay",  <3>
     "predicted_field": "ml.FlightDelay_prediction",  <4>
     "metrics": {  
       "multiclass_confusion_matrix" : {}
     }
   }
 }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// TEST[skip:TBD]

<1> The destination index which is the output of the analysis job.
<2> We calculate the training error by only evaluating the training data.
<3> The field that contains the ground truth label.
<4> The field that contains the predicted value.

Next, we calculate the generalization error that represents how well the model 
performed on previously unseen data:

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
POST _ml/data_frame/_evaluate
{
 "index": "df-flight-delayed",
   "query": {
    "term": {
      "ml.is_training": {
        "value": false  <1>
      }
    }
  },
 "evaluation": {
   "classification": {
     "actual_field": "FlightDelay",
     "predicted_field": "ml.FlightDelay_prediction",
     "metrics": {  
       "multiclass_confusion_matrix" : {}
     }
   }
 }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// TEST[skip:TBD]

<1> By only evaluating the data that was not used in training, we can 

> calculate the generalization error which shows the algorithm accuracy in making 

Reviewer 4: I would use the word `model` instead of the word `algorithm` here, because `model` is the one usually associated with a particular accuracy. 

`which shows the model's accuracy in making 
predictions for previously unseen data.`
